---
title: The Latest Health Protocol on International Travels to Indonesia during COVID-19 Pandemic
layout: "single.njk"
updated: 2022-02-21
eleventyNavigation:
  key: The Latest Health Protocol on International Travels to Indonesia during COVID-19 Pandemic
  parent: Home
---

​The Indonesian National Task Force on COVID-19 has enacted Circular Letter No.
7 Year 2022, that regulate the latest health protocol  for foreign travellers
to Indonesia during the COVID-19 Pandemic.

The arrival guidelines for international travellers to Indonesia can be
[downloaded here](/public/guidelines_international_travel_covid-19.pdf).

Main points of the Circular Letter are as follows:

Indonesian Citizens from abroad are allowed to enter Indonesia by following a
strict health protocol.  A temporary ban to enter Indonesia are still enforced
to foreigners with the exemption for Foreigners who are listed in the Regulation
of the Minister of Law and Human Rights No. 34 Year 2021 (enclosed); or are part
of the Travel Corridor Arrangement (TCA); or having a written permission from
related Ministry/Institution in Indonesia.  

Based on the decision of the Minister of Law and Human Rights No.
M.HH-03.GR.01.05 Year 2021 (enclosed), Foreigners can apply for a visit visa if
the visit are included in these categories, among others are tourism (only to
Bali and Riau); emergency and essential works; business meetings; purchase of
goods; medical, food, and humanitarian aid workers; crew member who join a
vessel in Indonesia; and crew of movie production. 

The visa application can be processed online through
[https://visa-online.imigrasi.go.id](https://visa-online.imigrasi.go.id) The
travellers have to show proof/certificate of a full dose COVID-19 vaccination
minimum 14 days before the date of travel. Exemption can be granted to 

(a) Holder of diplomatic or service visa who is part of the state or official visit
at the ministerial level and above; 

(b) part of the TCA scheme; 

(c) under 18 years old; and

(d) has a health condition that does not enable the person to receive vaccine.

The travellers have to show a result of negative PCR Test that was taken maximum
48 hours before departure. The travellers have to show proof of booking for
quarantine accommodation. The travellers have to quarantine for 3 days (for
those who have received booster vaccines); 5 days (for those who have received 2
doses of COVID-19 Vaccines); and 7 days (for those who have only received 1 dose
of COVID-19 Vaccines). 

The Indonesian Government will facilitate the quarantine for Indonesian Migrant
Workers, Students who has concluded their studies abroad; Indonesian government
official; and a person who represented Indonesia in a festival/event abroad.
Other Indonesian citizens and foreign citizens have to bear the cost of
quarantine accommodation. 

During quarantine, the travellers will have a PCR Test on the third day (for 3
days quarantine) or fourth day (for 5 days quarantine) or on the sixth day (for
7 days quarantine). If the PCR test was negative, the travellers can continue
their journey. If the PCR test was positive, travellers with mild or no symptoms
have to continue the quarantine in the accommodation. The travellers with severe
symptoms will be treated in the hospital. The hospital cost for foreign citizens
will be borne by themselves, and for Indonesian citizens will be borne by the
Indonesian Government. Exemption from quarantine can be given to Indonesian
citizens who are in an urgent condition, such as a life threatening health
condition, need a special treatment for their health condition, or due to the
death of main family. 

The application for the exemption in point 12 have to be submitted minimum 3
days before arrival in Indonesia to the Indonesian National Task Force on
COVID-19. The exemption may be granted in a selective, individual manner and
based on limited quota.  Exemption from quarantine can be given to foreign
citizens who falls under one of these criterias: (a) holder of
diplomatic/service visa; (b) Government Officials at the ministerial level or
above with the delegation in a state or official visit; (c) part of TCA scheme;
(d) delegation of the G20 member countries.  Foreigners who hold the status of
Head of Mission in Indonesia along with his/her family can quarantine at their
own residence. The application for the exemption in point 14 and 15 have to be
submitted minimum 7 days before arrival in Indonesia to the Indonesian National
Task Force on COVID-19. The exemption may be granted in a selective, individual
manner and based on limited quota.​ The travellers who visit Indonesia as
tourists can enter Indonesia through ports in Bali and Riau. They must have a
short visit visa, health insurance with the coverage of USD 25.000 and COVID-19
treatment, as well as proof of booking for accommodation.